docs: restructure working PR (#4866)
dfinity/motoko: doc/md/fundamentals/3-declarations/3-object-declaration.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Object declarations

> An object is a collection of named fields that can hold values or [functions](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/declarations/function-declarations).

Author: These docs are not live yet, therefore the links do not work yet.

## Comparing records and objects

| Feature | Record | Object |
|---------|--------|--------|

> | Stores data | Yes | Yes |
> | Stores functions | No | Yes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Named fields | Yes | Yes |
| Private fields | No | Yes |
| Recursively defined fields | No | Yes |
```

Author: FYI @Demali-876

Reviewer 2: Resolved in #5062

| Mutability | Supports [`let` (immutable) and `var` (mutable)](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/declarations/variable-declarations) | [Supports `let` (immutable) and `var` (mutable)](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/declarations/variable-declarations) |
| Supports field visibility (`public`, `private`) | No | Yes |
| Combination (`and`, `with`) | Yes | Yes |

> | Supports async behavior | No | Yes (supports `async` functions) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Supports async behavior | No | Yes (supports `async` functions) |
```
```suggestion
| Supports async behavior | No | Yes (supports `async` functions) |
```

### Record example

> Records only store data; they do not contain functions. Fields are always accessible using [dot notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming). Records do not support visibility modifiers (`public`, `private`). However, they do support `and` and `with` for combination and modification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Records are typically used to store structured data. Fields are always accessible using [dot notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming). Records do not support visibility modifiers (`public`, `private`). However, they do support `and` and `with` for combination and modification.
```

> Records only store data; they do not contain functions. Fields are always accessible using [dot notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming). Records do not support visibility modifiers (`public`, `private`). However, they do support `and` and `with` for combination and modification.

Author: @Demali-876

> Records only store data; they do not contain functions. Fields are always accessible using [dot notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming). Records do not support visibility modifiers (`public`, `private`). However, they do support `and` and `with` for combination and modification.

Reviewer 2: Covered extensively in 2-syntax/5-records. Will link in #5045

> Records only store data; they do not contain functions. Fields are always accessible using [dot notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming). Records do not support visibility modifiers (`public`, `private`). However, they do support `and` and `with` for combination and modification.

Author: Moved to respective PR

```motoko no-repl
let ghost = {
    var name : Text = "Motoko";
    var age : Nat = 25;
};

Debug.print(ghost.name); // "Motoko"
ghost.age += 1; // Updates age
```

### Object example

Objects extend records by supporting functions. Fields can have explicit visibility modifiers, such as `public` or `private`. Objects support async functions and structured behavior.

```motoko no-repl
let motoko = object {
    public let name = "Motoko";
    public var age = 30;

>     public func greet() : async Text {

Reviewer: Maybe use a better example that needs encapsulate state (and increasing counter, though boring, is good for this, or a log.

>     public func greet() : async Text {

Author: @Demali-876

>     public func greet() : async Text {

Author: Moved to respective PR
